Requirements Document


1. Introduction and Purpose:
	We are building a secure, local-hosted, CLI notes app powered by AI. The user will have access to reading past notes, writing new notes, and summarizing an old note. The intended purpose of the program is to give users a minimalistic, encryption-secured notes app to track and write anything, without fear of their data falling into the wrong hands. 

	1.1 Acronyms:
		HC = Host computer
		TSC = Terminal start command
		CLI = Command-line interface
		SUD = Software under development
		AI = Artificial Intelligence

2. Business Objectives:
	We are creating the SUD to apply the software methods we have learned from SE300 to a project. We intend to perform the common software lifecycle methods through this project. Additionally, we wish to create a resume-worthy application as we compete for summer internships, showcasing our software engineering expertise.

3. User Personas/Roles:
	Privacy-conscious consumer: Our main user category, someone who distrsuts the current note-taking solutions, prefers self-hosted applications due to privacy concerns with large tech companies or cloud-based software.
	Application enthusiast: A secondary consumer category, someone who enjoys testing and using new technologies, and does not stick with a single product unless it truly solves a problme in their life. 


4. Feature List:
	<NOTE: Instead of formal requiremnets, add a brief description, in paragraph form, like an app description>
	
	The SUD shall allow the user to create a new note
	The SUD shall allow the user to summarize a written note
	The SUD shall allow the user to append to a written note
	The SUD shall allow the user to display a written note
	The SUD shall encrypt a user’s written note prior to saving
	The SUD shall decrypt a user’s saved note prior to displaying
	The SUD shall allow a user to summarize a chosen note
	The SUD shall provide the user with a CLI-based menu from which to choose an action
	The SUD shall allow the user to save a new note

5. Use Cases:
	The SUD shall allow a user to run the SUD using a TSC
	The SUD shall allow a user to choose an action from the given action menu
	The SUD shall disallow invalid menu choices
	The SUD shall perform the desired action from the given action menu that the user chose
	The SUD shall never expose the plain-text contents of a file outside of the SUD
	The SUD shall disallow the user from saving a blank note
	

6. User Requirements:
	The SUD shall be available online as a public GitHub repository
	The SUD shall be cloned into a directory on the HC
	The user shall ne able to access the terminal on the HC
	The user shall be able to copy/paste

7. Functional Requirements:
	The SUD shall allow the user to create a new note
	The SUD shall allow the user to summarize a written note
	The SUD shall allow the user to append to a written note
	The SUD shall allow the user to display a written note
	The SUD shall encrypt a user’s written note prior to saving
	The SUD shall decrypt a user’s saved note prior to displaying
	The SUD shall allow a user to summarize a chosen note
	The software shall perform keyword analysis on the note
	The software shall save the user's notes on the HC
	The software shall confirm if a user chooses to delete a note
	The software shall perform input validation for all user interactions
	The software shall display the user's chosen action
	The SUD shall notify the user if the note exceeds the supported size for summarization
	The SUD shall notify the user if the note exceeds a supported file size

9. Interface Requirements:
	The HC shall have a terminal from which the software will run (upon TSC)
	The HC shall have a typing interface

10. Performance Requirements:
	The SUD shall encrypt a file of size 1MB within 10 seconds
	The SUD shall decrypt a file of size 1MB within 10 seconds
	The SUD shall summarize a file of size 1MB within 15 seconds
	The SUD shall begin running within 1 second after TSC 
	The software shall handle notes up to 15MB for summarization and keyword analysis without crashing

11. Availability Requirements:
	The SUD shall allow access to previously saved notes

12. Safety Requirements:
	The SUD shall provide a safe cancel option at every destructive or irreversible step (e.g., delete note, overwrite note).
	The SUD shall not terminate unexpectedly on invalid input, it shall display an error message

13. Security Requirements:
	The SUD shall not expose file contents outside of the program
	The SUD shall have write permissions on the HC
	The SUD shall have read permissions on the HC

14. Design and Implementation Constraints:
	N/A

15. External System Requirements:
	The HC shall have Python 3.10 or later installed

16. Quality Assurance Requirements:
	The SUD shall have at least 3 tests for each program functionality

17. Document Requirements:
	The SUD shall be delivered with a set-up manual called “instructions.txt”.
	The SUD shall have a well-documented README file detailing our development process

18. Trace Tags:
	Each requirement will have a trace tag, numbered 1 to whatever, and will be appended to the end of the function
	Each team member has a unique trace tag identifier (Roman = 1, Afonso = 2, TJ = 3, John = 4)
	The identifiers will be appened to the function names with first number denoting author and following numbers denoting requiremnt trace tag
	Example: my_function_3_001(), written by TJ, satisfies requiremnt 001
